PAROUSIA - second coming of christ
ADVENT - coming or arrival
MAN OF SIN/LAWLESSNESS - the anti Christ II Thess. 2:3
SPIRITUAL GIFTS - I Corinthians 12-14
FRUIT OF THE SPIRIT - I Corinthians 13
ARMOR OF GOD -  Ephesians 6:11
GREAT COMMISSION - Matthew 28: 19-20
ACTS 1:8 - Witness, to the ends of the earth, holy spirit, from local to global
ROMANS 12: 1, 2 - body as holy sacrifice, live in according to christ
HEBREWS 12: 1, 2 - sanctification; cast away sin and use jesus
JOHN 1:1 - The word became flesh; the word was with and was god
KING, SERVANT, PERFECT MAN, AND DEITY - jesus 
TRIBULATION - 7 years of persecution
MILLENNIUM - 1000 year reign of christ
SEVEN CHURCHES - Ephesus Smyrna Pergamon Thyatira Sardis Philadelphia Laodicea 
GODDESS DIANA - Ephesus
JUDAIZERS - tried to bring back old jewish customs
FIRST BORN OF CREATION - Col 1:15
LOGOS OF GOD - JOHN 1:1 the word was and was and was
PHARISEES- hypocrites,  "One whose is separated"
 SADDUCEES-"To be righteous" Denied the resurrection, ignored the OT
 ESSENES- preserved biblical manuscripts
 ZEALOTS-  Spiritual warriors to a fault
NEO-PLATIONISM-  Looked to the philosophies of Greece as heroes
 EPICUREANISM-  Concerned for finding the good in everything, but without God.
 STOICISM -  man Judgmental  You 'tough out' life
CYNICISM - Carried a lantern by day, saying he was looking for an honest
ANTIOCHUS EPHIPHANES- tried to destroy jedism abomination of desolation 
APOCRYPHA - not as significant as the other books of the Bible, scripture by Roman Catholics
Pseudepigraph - apocalyptic boocks
GALATIANS 4:4 - tells of advent of christ
PENTECOST - church emergence, “The fiftieth day”
W.I.F.E. stans for? -  Worship, Instruction, Fellowship, and Expression
GREEKS, ROMANS, AND JEWS  - jews had law, greeks brought comon language, romans could transmit 
INCARCERATION OF PAUL - four
STEWARDSHIP: II Cor. 8, 9 - giving, and Titus collecting money
FALSE TEACHERS - Crete, Galatia, Colossi
EPHESIANS 2: 8, 9 - saved through faith and not works
JOHN 3: 16 - for god so loved the world that he gave christ
BETTER THAN - Jesus is better than angels, 
MIND OF CHRIST -  I Cor.2:16 you don’t know the mind of Christ
JESUS GROWTH: Luke 2:52 - grew in all aspects
SERMON ON THE MOUNT- Matthew 5-7
PASTORAL EPISTLES - 3 1st and 2nd tim and titus
CHURCH - body of christ
Job is referred to as what? - The Shakespear if the OT
What does Credo ut Intellegum mean? - Anselm said I believe in order to understand
The day of the Lord follows what form? - Day of the lord follows an "already… not yet" form It can come in a temporal form, and then later in a huge form
Jesus fufilled what three offices? - prohpet preist and king
What NT book contains no references to the OT? = I Thessalonians
What is a Pericopes? -  a topic within a certain bunch of  verses which ties together the whole book
KING, SERVANT, PERFECT MAN, AND DEITY - four aspects of Jesus
Southern Kingdom - Judah
How many missionary trips did Paul go on - 4
Where were people first called christians - Antioch 
What does apostle mean? - sent one
Which is the Love Chapter? - I Corinthians 13
Satan _______ God ______ - Satan temps, God tests God tests for our benefit for us to grow Satan temps to destroy us and make us downtrodden
Isaiah's wife had two sons, what were their names? - 	Sheer_jashub Maher Shalel Hashbaz
Pneumatology - study of the Holy Spirit
Ecclesiology - the study of the church
Hamantiology - the study of sin
What was the train metaphor? - The engine represents faith, the pasenger car is facts, and the Caboose is emotions
What book shows difficulties even to those who are Godly? - Job
What book shows wisdom and talks about how to live in God's blessing? - proverbs
What book talks about patriotic love for one's country? - Lamentations
Lamentations is written in reference to what city? - Jerusalem
What book says prosperity is the lot of the faithful? - Ecclesiastes
Who were Job's thee "comforters" - Eliphaz, Bildad, Zophar
What is a test of one's allegiance to God? - suffering
Who wrote the Pslams? - David wrote 73, the others were collected
What are the 4 types of parallelism? - Synonymous, Emblematic, Synthetic, and Antithetical 
What are the caracteristics of Synonymous parellelism? -  2 lines or 2 ideas that say the same thing
What are the caracteristics of Emblematic parellelism? - the poet makes a point them paints a picture
What are the caracteristics of Synthetic parellelism? -  the poet takes an idea and expands on it
What are the caracteristics of Antithetical parellelism? - the writer states a thesis and then gives an antithesis
What charictarizes Imprecatory Psalms? - Imprecatory Psalms 		Demonstrate Righteous Indignation
Qoheleth wrote which book? - Ecclesiastes
Which book talks about how "Everything is meaningless?" - Ecclesiastes
What book talks about the love etween a man and his wife? - Song of Songs
Which is the Epistle of Freedom? - Galatians
What group was undoing Paul's work in Galatia? - The Judaizers
Which is the most autobiographical of Paul's letters? - Galatians
Which is the only Epistle addressed to a group of churches? - Galatians
Which city worshiped the goddess Diana? - Ephesus
How many times did Paul visit Ephesus? - three
What are five keywords about Ephesains? - Redemption, Reconciliation, Revelation, Walk, Warefare
What three influences interfered with Paul's work in Philippi? - Satan, The Government, and God
What are the four types of Joy as outlined in Philippians? - Service, Sacrifice, Spiritual, and Satisfying Joy
In what was was Colossae different from Rome and Corinth? - Very few jews lived in Colossae
What were people worshiping at the church of Colossae? - Angels
What is Pauls prominent teaching in the book of Colossians? - Redemption is found in none other than christ
Which Epistle has no OT quotes? - I Thesselonians
What was paul's purpose for writing II Thesselonians? - To correct their false understanding of the second coming of christ
Which is the shortest of Paul's Epistles (After Philemon) - II Thesselonians
In which epistle did Paul predict the coming of an Anti-Christ? - II Thesselonians
Who was Timothy, the person Paul wrote I Timothy to? - Timothy was a young pastor. He was told how to elect church leaders and how to face opposition
What is the first book if the Pastoral Epistles? - I Timothy
What was Paul's last epistle? - II Timothy; it was also Paul's least octrinal work
Where was Titus, Paul's pupil, at work? - crete
Which book is about Paul's encounter with a runaway slave? - Philemon
What is the name of the man Paul meets in the book of Philemon? - Onesimus
What is the first 'catholic' epistles? - James
who are sugested authors of Hewbrews? - Paul, Apollos, Peter
What is the Hall of Faith? - a long list of OT saints who demonstrated a life if Faith
Christ is shown as what four "new" things in the book of Hebrews? - the new preisthood, covenant, sacrifice, and sancturary
Which Epistle deals with the conduct of suffering Christians? - I Peter
Which Epistle defines the difference between true knowlage and knowlage given from false teachers? - II Peter
In what three ways are believers reffered to in I John? - Beloved, little children, and Brethren
What is the shortest book of the NT? - III John
What does Isaiah mean? - savior
Which book was found in its entirety in the dead sea scrolls? - Isaiah
What does Jeremiah mean? - exalted of God
Who was the weeping prophet? - Jeremiah
What does Ezekiel mean? - Restoration
Ezekiel is reffered to as what at least 100 times? - son of man
What book contains the Valley of Dry Bones, Russia's Doom, and the Millennial Temple? - Ezekiel
What does Daniel mean? - God is my Judge
The lion's den, and Shad, Meshack, and Abendigo? - Daniel
What four earthly kingdoms are referenced in Nebuchadnezzars dream - Babylon, Persia, Greece and Rome
What does Hosea mean? - salvzation of the Lord
Hosea talks primarily about what aspect of God's character? - love
Hosea marries who? - Gomer the prostitute
Joel means what? - Yahweh is God
Amos means what? - to bear
The book of Amos talk primarily about what? - dicipline from God
Obadiah means what? - One who serves the Lord
What is the theme of the book of Obadiah? - Judgement, from pegan nations too, the day of judgement is coming soon
Jonah means what? - Dove
Who was the truly reluctant prophet? - Jonah
What does Micah mean? - Who is like Yahweh?
What is the product of genuine faith? - SOCIAL JUSTICE AND PRACTICAL HOLINESS BASED ON THE RIGHTEOUSNESS AND SOVREIGNTY OF GOD.
What does Nahum mean? - to comfort
What is the theme of Nahum? - The lord is zealous for his people
What does Habbakuk mean? - One who is embraced
Habbakuk rejoices because of what? - the living faith, he says The just shall live by faith
what does ZEPHANIAH mean? - “Jehovah hides”
What does Zechariah mean? - Yahweh has remebered
What is the theme of Zechariah - end times and visions of the final triumph of God
What does haggai mean? - festival
What does Zerubbabel mean? - “my servant”
What does Malachi mean? - my messenger