Which is the Epistle of Freedom? - Galatians
What group was undoing Paul's work in Galatia? - The Judaizers
Which is the most autobiographical of Paul's letters? - Galatians
Which is the only Epistle addressed to a group of churches? - Galatians
Which city worshiped the goddess Diana? - Ephesus
How many times did Paul visit Ephesus? - three
What are five keywords about Ephesains? - Redemption, Reconciliation, Revelation, Walk, Warefare
What three influences interfered with Paul's work in Philippi? - Satan, The Government, and God
What are the four types of Joy as outlined in Philippians? - Service, Sacrifice, Spiritual, and Satisfying Joy
In what was was Colossae different from Rome and Corinth? - Very few jews lived in Colossae
What were people worshiping at the church of Colossae? - Angels
What is Pauls prominent teaching in the book of Colossians? - Redemption is found in none other than christ
Which Epistle has no OT quotes? - I Thesselonians
What was paul's purpose for writing II Thesselonians? - To correct their false understanding of the second coming of christ
Which is the shortest of Paul's Epistles (After Philemon) - II Thesselonians
In which epistle did Paul predict the coming of an Anti-Christ? - II Thesselonians
Who was Timothy, the person Paul wrote I Timothy to? - Timothy was a young pastor. He was told how to elect church leaders and how to face opposition
What is the first book if the Pastoral Epistles? - I Timothy
What was Paul's last epistle? - II Timothy; it was also Paul's least octrinal work
Where was Titus, Paul's pupil, at work? - crete
Which book is about Paul's encounter with a runaway slave? - Philemon
What is the name of the man Paul meets in the book of Philemon? - Onesimus
What is the first 'catholic' epistles? - James
who are sugested authors of Hewbrews? - Paul, Apollos, Peter
What is the Hall of Faith? - a long list of OT saints who demonstrated a life if Faith
Christ is shown as what four "new" things in the book of Hebrews? - the new preisthood, covenant, sacrifice, and sancturary
Which Epistle deals with the conduct of suffering Christians? - I Peter
Which Epistle defines the difference between true knowlage and knowlage given from false teachers? - II Peter
In what three ways are believers reffered to in I John? - Beloved, little children, and Brethren
What is the shortest book of the NT? - III John
